# nextCP/2

NextCP/2 is a web-based UPnP control point written in Java and Typescript.

Documentation is available at [GitHub Pages](https://sf666.github.io/nextcp2).

## installation

- Download prebuild binaries from the [release](https://github.com/sf666/nextcp2/releases) page (JAR files) and put them in a directory with write permissions.
- start the application (with optional more memory by adding "-Xms256m -Xmx512m")

```
java [-Xms256m -Xmx512m] -jar [-DconfigFile=path_to_config_file] nextcp2.jar
```

If no config file is given or found, a config-file will be generated next to the JAR file on the first startup. In this case the application might complain about incorrect or missing (default) configuration items. In this case adopt the config to your system by navigating to `App setting' and restart the application.

## system requirements

- minimum JDK 17
- maven 3.8
- yarn
- GIT client

## browser requirements

- Web browser needs support for server-sent-events. Current Chromium based browser should work.

## Install maven dependencies

Call `./build_dependencies.sh` script for installing dependent libraries from source into local maven repository.

For manual installation clone the following repositories :

```bash
git clone https://github.com/sf666/musicbrainz.git
```

### automated build

- call `build.sh`

Build artifacts are located in the `build` directory.

### manual building

```diff
! The frontend has to be packaged before the backend is build.
```

#### build frontend

```bash
cd frontend/nextcp-ui
./ng build
```

UI will be build into the backend folder : `backend/nextcp2-runtime/src/main/resources/static`

```diff
! Since this directory contains generated content, do not add it to the repository.
```

#### build backend

```bash
cd backend/
mvn clean
mvn install
mvn package
```

### build artifact

Build artifacts are located in the maven `target` directories. 

- The runnable application jar is build in the module `backend/nextcp2-assembly/target`
- Device Driver are build in the modules below `backend/nextcp2-device-driver`

#### main application

After a successful build, the main application build artifact will be located here `backend/nextcp2-assembly/target`

#### McIntosh device driver

This device driver controls (bi-directional) a McIntosh device connected to a RS232/TCP-IP transceiver like this on: __USR-TCP232-302__.

Current implemented features:

- power control
- volume control
- input source control

After a successful build, the device driver (tested with McIntosh MA9000 and MA12000 amplifier) is located here: `backend/nextcp2-device-driver/nextcp2-ma9000/target/`.

# running the application

To run the snapshot call :

```bash
java -Xms256m -Xmx512m -jar [-DconfigFile=path_to_config_file] nextcp2.jar
```

By default the application will start on the current interface on port `8085`.

Open your browser and connect to the application:

```
http://localhost:8085
```

If nextcp runs on a server or remote machine, replace `localhost` by the IP address of your device.


## config file

The application tries to load the config file from the following locations in this order:

1. file provided by system-property 'configFile'
2. file located '/etc/nextcp2/nextcp2Config.json'
3. file located 'USER_HOME/nextcp2Config.json'
4. file located 'WORK_DIR/nextcp2Config.json'

If no config file is found, a config file will be generated at this location : `WORK_DIR/nextcp2Config.json`.

# developer notice

## debugging

For debugging within an IDE start the backend first. The main Spring-Boot startup class is

```
backend/nextcp2-assembly/src/main/java/nextcp/NextcpApplicationStartup
```

For having a frontend build, `yarn` has to be installed in the build environment.

To start the front-end in Visual Studio Code switch to TERMINAL, change into the directory `nextcp2/frontend/nextcp-ui` and start the front-end by typing

```
yarn start -c dev
```

Launch your favorite chromium browser from the Visual Studio Code debug perspective.

## code generation

Generatied classes are located in the package `codegen` within the maven module `nextcp2-codegen`.

### DTO

DTOs for Java and Typescript are generated to keep data exchange between the rest and SSE interface (Java) consistent with the consuming Typescript code.

#### Java DTOs

The class `DtoModelGen` generates Java-DTO classes configured by the file `dto.yaml` located in the resource folder `src/main/resources/yaml`.

This file has many elements of

```
[CLASS_NAME]:
    [PROPERTY]: [TYPE]
```

Call `DtoModelGen` each time you modify the yaml file. Generate the file into the maven project `nextcp2-modelgen` in the package `nextcp.dto` by pointing to this absolute path as first parameter.

```diff
! ATTENTION: Never modify the generated DTOs files since changes to them will be overwritten by the next call to the generator.
```

#### Typescript DTOs

After generating Java DTOs, Typescript DTO's are automatically generated by the maven build process.

To manually start the Typescript DTO generation, enter the maven project `nextcp2-modelgen` and call `mvn process-classes`.

Typescript DTO's will be generated in the file `nextcp-ui/src/app/service/dto.d.ts`.

```diff
! ATTENTION: Never modify the generated DTO file since changes will be overwritten by the next maven build.
```

### UPnP services

If activated in the configuration file, java code (service classes, input and output classes, event consumer) will be generated for all discovered UPnP services. The generated code uses [jupnp](https://github.com/jupnp/jupnp) as UPnP stack.
